---
layout: post
title: "Science"
author: "Kyle Birchard"
categories: post
tags: [documentation,sample]
image: 01-DocSearles_44994550751_fe9a83d39a_k.jpg
---

# Project Science Goals

## Build the infrastructure for integrated, landscape-scale ecological modeling and data management

One of the initial aims of this project is to adapt existing ecological modeling tools to estimate relative abundance/deficiency of pollinator habitat on working lands. A key feature of these tools is the ability to update model outputs in real time based on conditions on the ground. These tools include habitat suitability and phenology (life cycle) models of plant and pollinator species. This information will inform habitat management activities, and can be used to report on conditions in real-time, for ecological forecasting, and for post hoc impact evaluation. We will use the [Degree-Day, establishment Risk, and Pest event mapping system](https://github.com/bbarker505/ddrp_v2) (DDRP) model as a starting point. While this was initially developed to evaluate invasive pest species, the biological underpinnings of the program apply equally to beneficial species, including pollinators.

## Build decision tools for habitat creation and maintenance

Conservation organizations, universities, state Cooperative Extension programs, and conservation districts play critical roles in understanding pollinator ecology and supporting action on the ground. The pollinator collaborative model described in this paper is meant to help these kinds of organizations stretch their resources and provide technologies to local communities that will allow them to make effective use of the wealth of knowledge contributed by the conservation science field.

## Build capacity for monitoring pollinator populations

This project will also contribute to the development and implementation of new technologies for remote sensing, participatory research, and citizen science. Organizations such as the [Cornell Lab of Ornithology](https://www.birds.cornell.edu/home/) have achieved considerable success connecting world-class research to engaged people all over the world in the service of ecological protection. Closer to home in the Willamette Valley, the [Oregon Bee Project](https://www.oregonbeeproject.org/) is a collaborative effort of many stakeholders with a mission to: “Bring...together Oregonians around a science-based strategy for protecting and promoting wild and managed bees through education, pollinator-friendly practices, and research.” 

We envision PECs as one way to marshal additional resources for initiatives like these in areas that may be considered “out of scope” for their respective missions, such as software development and participation by people who are underrepresented in conservation efforts. This project will actively seek out collaborations with groups working on technologies for increasing the capacity to monitor pollinator populations, and ensure long-term access to data for research and policymaking.
